Kommander upgrade, first draft (#4177)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/2.2/dkp-upgrade/upgrade-kommander/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Upgrade Kommander
title: Upgrade Kommander
menuWeight: 20
excerpt: Steps to upgrade Kommander via CLI
beta: false
enterprise: true
---
 

> This section describes how to upgrade your Kommander cluster and all its Platform Applications to the latest versions. Kommander is installed on your Management cluster and upgrading it must be the first step you take when upgrading DKP, to prevent compatibility issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how to upgrade your Kommander Management cluster and all its Platform Applications to the latest versions. Kommander is installed on your Management cluster and upgrading it must be the first step you take when upgrading DKP, to prevent compatibility issues.
```

> This section automatically upgrades your Kommander cluster and all its Platform Applications to the latest versions. Kommander is installed on your Management cluster and upgrading it must be the first step you take when upgrading DKP, as it will prevent compatibility issues.

Reviewer 2: In my mind, 'automatically' implies the user does not have to take any action for it to happen.

```suggestion
This section describes how to upgrade your Kommander cluster and all its Platform Applications to the latest versions. Kommander is installed on your Management cluster and upgrading it must be the first step you take when upgrading DKP, to prevent compatibility issues.
```

> <p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>It is important that you upgrade Kommander before upgrading Konvoy and Kubernetes. Kommander 2.1 does not support Kubernetes 1.22, and upgrading Kubernetes to 1.22 will be part of the Konvoy upgrade.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>It is important to upgrade Kommander before upgrading Konvoy and Kubernetes. Kommander 2.1 does not support Kubernetes 1.22, and upgrading Kubernetes to 1.22 will be part of the Konvoy upgrade.</p>
```

## Prerequisites

- [Download][download-binary] and install the latest DKP CLI binary on your computer.

> - Ensure you are on DKP version 2.1 or 2.1.1 and Kubernetes version 1.21.

Reviewer: Are we ensuring/promising upgrades from 2.1.0? I'm not sure if we've been testing from 2.1.0 🤔

Author: @sonali-mishra-22 I believe I got the information from you that we do have one or more customers on 2.1.0?

Reviewer 3: Correct, we need to test upgrades from 2.1.0 and 2.1.1. We have a customer (Edward Jones) on 2.1.0 currently.

> - If you have attached clusters, ensure they are on Kubernetes versions 1.19, 1.20 or 1.21. To upgrade your Kubernetes version, refer to [AKS][AKS], [AWS][AWS], [Azure][Azure], [EKS][EKS], [pre-provisioned][pre-provisioned] documentation. [enterprise type="inline" size="small"/]

Author: Decided we won't have enterprise tags for lines for only for entire documents: 
```suggestion
- If you have attached clusters, ensure they are on Kubernetes versions 1.19, 1.20 or 1.21. To upgrade your Kubernetes version, refer to [AKS][AKS], [AWS][AWS], [Azure][Azure], [EKS][EKS], [pre-provisioned][pre-provisioned] documentation.
```

- Review the [Platform Application version updates][platform-apps] that are part of this upgrade.

> ## Upgrade Kommander

Reviewer 2: Should there be an additional step here to have the user make sure their KUBECONFIG environment variable is pointing at the Management cluster?

> 1.  Use the DKP CLI to upgrade Kommander and all the Platform Applications in the Management cluster:

Author: @cneth you commented it might be a good idea to ensure customers have their KUBECONFIG environment variable pointing at the Management cluster? How about this?

> 1. In DKP CLI, use this command to upgrade Kommander and all Platform Applications in the Management cluster:

Author: ```suggestion
1.  In DKP CLI, use this command to upgrade Kommander and all Platform Applications in the Management cluster:
```

> 1.  In DKP CLI, use this command to upgrade Kommander and all Platform Applications in the Management cluster:

Reviewer 2: nit, I think this scans a bit better:

```suggestion
1.  Use the DKP CLI to upgrade Kommander and all the Platform Applications in the Management cluster:
```

```bash
dkp upgrade kommander
```

<A confirmation message appears once upgrade is complete.>

> 1.  <Pending step: if confirmation message cannot be added on time, document a way to check the status of the upgrade in Management cluster.>

Author: I have noticed markdown does not render enumerations correctly when an additional paragraph or code comes in between? Is there a solution for this, or do we set the correct numbers manually?

Reviewer 4: try indenting the code/text in between. e.g.

1. it doesn't work
```
mycode.Here()
```
1. but it works...
   ```
   mySecond.Code()
   ```
1. ...I hope

raw:

> 1.  If your environment has additional Workspaces (Managed and Attached clusters), upgrade your [Workspaces and their Platform applications][upgrade-workspaces] on a per-Workspace basis. If you only have one cluster, proceed with [Konvoy Upgrade][konvoy-upgrade].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  If your environment has additional Workspaces (Managed and Attached clusters), upgrade your [Workspaces and their Platform applications][upgrade-workspaces] on a per-Workspace basis. If you only have a Management cluster, proceed with [Konvoy Upgrade][konvoy-upgrade].
```

> 1.  If your environment has additional Workspaces (Managed and Attached clusters), upgrade your [Workspaces and their Platform applications][upgrade-workspaces] on a per-Workspace basis. If you only have one cluster, proceed with [Konvoy Upgrade][konvoy-upgrade].

Reviewer 2: I don't see any 'upgrade-workspaces' link below...

Author: Some topics are being created and do not exist yet. But surely I will make sure to add them here once we have them. Probably will need a second PR for that

[download-binary]: ../../download/
[AKS]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/upgrade-cluster
[AWS]: /dkp/konvoy/2.2/choose-infrastructure/aws/advanced/update/
[Azure]: /dkp/konvoy/2.2/choose-infrastructure/azure/advanced/update/
[EKS]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/update-cluster.html
[pre-provisioned]: /dkp/konvoy/2.2/choose-infrastructure/pre-provisioned/upgrade/control-plane/

> [platform-application]: ../../workspaces/applications/catalog-applications/

Author: ```suggestion
[platform-apps]: ../../workspaces/applications/catalog-applications/
```

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Upgrade Kommander
title: Upgrade Kommander
menuWeight: 20
excerpt: Steps to upgrade Kommander via CLI
beta: false
enterprise: true
---
 
This section describes how to upgrade your Kommander Management cluster and all its Platform Applications to the latest versions. Kommander is installed on your Management cluster and upgrading it must be the first step you take when upgrading DKP, to prevent compatibility issues.

> <p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>It is important to upgrade Kommander BEFORE upgrading the Kubernetes version (or Konvoy version for Managed Konvoy clusters) in attached clusters, due to the previous versions' incompatibility with 1.22.</p>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>It is important you upgrade Kommander BEFORE upgrading the Kubernetes version (or Konvoy version for Managed Konvoy clusters) in attached clusters, due to the previous versions' incompatibility with 1.22.</p>
```

## Prerequisites

- [Download][download-binary] and install the latest DKP CLI binary on your computer.
- Ensure you are on DKP version 2.1 or 2.1.1 and Kubernetes version 1.21.

> - If you have attached clusters, ensure they are on Kubernetes versions 1.19, 1.20 or 1.21. To upgrade your Kubernetes version, refer to [AKS][AKS], [AWS][AWS], [Azure][Azure], [EKS][EKS], [pre-provisioned][pre-provisioned] documentation.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- If you have attached clusters, ensure they are on Kubernetes versions 1.19, 1.20 or 1.21. To upgrade your Kubernetes version, refer to the appropriate documentation for your environment: [AKS][AKS], [AWS][AWS], [Azure][Azure], [EKS][EKS], [pre-provisioned][pre-provisioned].
```

- Review the [Platform Application version updates][platform-apps] that are part of this upgrade.

## Upgrade Kommander

> 1.  Before running the commands below, ensure that your `dkp` configuration **references the Kommander Management cluster**, otherwise it attempts to run the upgrade on the bootstrap cluster. You can do this by setting the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable [to the appropriate kubeconfig file's location][k8s-access-to-clusters].

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Before running the following command, ensure that your `dkp` configuration **references the Kommander Management cluster**, otherwise it attempts to run the upgrade on the bootstrap cluster. You can do this by setting the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable [to the appropriate kubeconfig file's location][k8s-access-to-clusters].
```

> 1.  Before running the following command, ensure that your `dkp` configuration **references the Kommander Management cluster**, otherwise it attempts to run the upgrade on the bootstrap cluster. You can do this by setting the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable [to the appropriate kubeconfig file's location][k8s-access-to-clusters].

Reviewer 5: I think you can remove the 1. here and make this more of a lead-in to the procedure and not step 1. Remember a step should always start with an action verb first. So either reword or reorganize this into a lead-in and then an action step.

>     <p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE:</strong> An alternative to initializing the KUBECONFIG environment variable as stated earlier is to use the <code>–kubeconfig=cluster_name.conf</code> flag. This ensures that Kommander is installed on the workload cluster.</p>

Author: ```suggestion
    <p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE:</strong> An alternative to initializing the KUBECONFIG environment variable as stated earlier is to use the <code>–kubeconfig=cluster_name.conf</code> flag. This ensures that Kommander is upgraded on the workload cluster.</p>
```

1.  Use the DKP CLI to upgrade Kommander and all the Platform Applications in the Management cluster:

    ```bash
    dkp upgrade kommander
    ```

    <A confirmation message appears once upgrade is complete.>

1.  <Pending step: if confirmation message cannot be added on time, document a way to check the status of the upgrade in Management cluster.>

> 1.  If your environment has additional Workspaces (Managed and Attached clusters), upgrade your [Workspaces and their Platform applications][upgrade-workspaces] on a per-Workspace basis. If you only have a Management cluster, proceed with [Konvoy Upgrade][konvoy-upgrade].

Reviewer 5: Same comment here as above - reword/rework to put the action verb first, or make this a comment after the procedure.
